Okay, the tapes are rolling and I believe I see the needles moving.
Okay, since the Siege of Wonder came out, we haven't seen anything, any novels or short
stories either.
We talked about this while ago, but this is for the tape.
Do you plan to do any more writing or have you outgrown that?
Is that gone?
Oh no, gosh, it's like being a Catholic.
You're not, no one has ever, never a Catholic again.
You just don't happen to be doing it at any one time.
I certainly desperately hope to keep writing and put something together, which will be
a good piece of work.
Right now, as I said, the time, I hope I'm becoming also a better lawyer, a more able
attorney, and that means I can do more and I am expected to do more and I want to.
Also, we now have three children instead of two.
That all presents a lot of breaks in the day and a reduction of available time.
It's rather difficult to be turning over a consistent plot line in your mind when somebody
insists just because they're paying you much, much money an hour to think about their problem.
It's kind of difficult to maintain the threat of your character's problems in your mind,
so when you're ready to sit down, you at least have, if you don't know what's going to happen
next, at least you remember what just happened by the same token, organization of children,
things like that, charming little people like that make it kind of difficult to write some
bitter and black stuff that I've done before.
So, time has changed, people have changed, and the environment has changed, and I certainly
have every intention of sticking at it until it comes together again.
I can't really conceive of any time when I just pack up the typewriter forever and say,
that's it for me, there's no more point in all this.
I've never allowed that, I think to come back to something I already mentioned, I've never allowed
the writing, although it has probably been the most important part of my life for a great
many years, in one sense or another, it has never dominated to the extent that I really
had to do a good job, or to the extent that failure in any kind of time frame was to be
a personal disaster.
I remember the biographies of the great writers of the 1930s, and the commitment to those
stuff, and indeed the commitment to great many writers who do what I'd say do it for real,
and boy, even great ones very often come to a pretty sad end.
It's a hard regiment, I'm sure everybody realizes it.
It's a little daunting even now, maybe even especially now.
You mentioned your lawyer and that, oh, okay, I go to science fiction conventions, and there
are not a lot of lawyers there, in fact, there are very few, it just doesn't seem that people
who are into that are into science fiction.
How did your bosses, your peers, the people that you work with at your law firm, how did
they take your, when you published The Siege of Wunder, then knowing what you'd done, how
did they view that?
I'm curious.
Well, they viewed it with a great deal of favor because I bought the drinks for that time.
The law firm I'm with right now has a very good mix of personality and achievements on
field or another, and it happens to be mine, and it's regarded certainly without the least
of the law, but I think what I have to be a little, you know, the firm itself attracts
people with different abilities, perspectives and personalities.
The idea of the New York law firm or the organization where the large law firm, we only have about
20 folks in ours, and as an organization, I think it still cultivates individuality, and
it happens to be evidence of mine.
So it's, gosh, I'm the guy that interviewed him read the books.
They told me they enjoyed it.
Like I said, I was buying.
It fits in very well.
It's not, and again, going back to what I just said, it does not dominate my life.
I've not allowed it to, nor have I sought a situation where it could if I wasn't paying
attention or where I would feel that that would be the thing to do.
So I certainly would be very insulted if anybody called it a hobby or dabbling.
I don't believe it's that, but what I'm in the law firm, I trust I'm regarded as a lawyer
who has written some books rather than a writer who does his for living right now.
Do you actively or just somewhat keep up with fantasy and science fiction in its current state now?
Regrettably not.
No, I'm a very slow reader.
I just don't have enough time.
My primary reading category has always been history, still is, but I'm just trying to read
as much as I possibly can of whatever curiosity interests me rather.
So I try to mix it in with a pretty fair cross-section of, I don't want to say popular science,
but a comprehensible science, history, novels, magazines, that sort of thing.
I still read as much as I can, but it's not a great deal.
Not as much nearly as much as I'd like.
And of course what's happening in science fiction, I've really been out of that as much as I was ever truly in it for quite some time.
So as far as the latest, latest, Asia in plot or aspect, I really couldn't help you there.
I just along with the science fiction writers association for a while went to a little minor convention here during an argument.
That was about it, really. Not an argument, man.
Have you ever considered, if you do, write science fiction again, maybe combining your legal mind with the future anyway,
maybe not science fiction, but the future? There's not been much of that done.
Well, I hate to say it, but on the latest attempt on the book that I'm trying to do now, I've really broken myself down.
I'm trying to get away from what I've done. I realize there's very often only a very few kinds of characters that I have in the prior four books.
And the latest one, I'm trying to make the guy a little more of a positive personality.
And as it's turned out, at least in the latest beginning, the fellow attorney general of the United States.
So I guess that means something. I'm a little embarrassed by it, but it's something different.
At least he's the attorney general of what's left of the United States.
Have you ever read any books by Charles Harness?
Yeah, I haven't.
Okay. He's a patent lawyer, and he's one of my very favorite. He's one of these, another one of these people that produces a lot of books.
He's produced six now, and he's about 65.
But he has one that just came out called the Venetian Court, which is from a short story.
I think it's about, I think it's in the near future, whenever if you violate a patent, or if you go around something that's patented and you do it anyway,
that you get the death penalty and the lawyer argues the case.
And he writes, he has some short stories that are pretty interesting about lawyers.
And other than that, I don't think there's any other, there are very few lawyer protagonists or lawyer situations in science fiction.
I really, none spring to mind that in my experience, that the guy, by the way, in this latest story, even though he is a lawyer or an attorney general,
it's not going to be a law of story. He's going to have that position as much for symbolistic purposes as anything else.
But it's not going to be real, what we do, courtroom battle in the past, future, or side time.
If that may be an area, the last thing I want to get into is coming over from the law and writing to the court.
I'm also afraid I just might get into second defending prostrations again, too.
I'm not sure I could do that, especially.
Okay, that's the end of my question list, so I'll turn the tapes off.
I want to ask you just a couple of things off the cuff. When you were in law, you went to New York University.
Where did you live? Did you live right by the University, right on Washington Square?
Right on Washington Square.
Well, I stayed, I had friends that lived in the village on 4th Street right there, just that side of 6th Avenue.
We stayed there part of one summer and really had a great time.
Well, it's a weird neighborhood as you recall. When were you there?
This would have been the summer of 1976.
Okay, well I was there from 1968 to 1971.
The problem, of course, being in school is you got a lot to do. You don't have much money, even if you did have the time.
And the law school itself is pretty much a closed little society. A lot of folks commute it.
You're sure the tape isn't on?
Yeah, no problem.
Real dull bunch of people.
Real, very much interested in Wall Street or Wall Street or Righteousness, hopefully combining the two.
I don't know how they're going to do that.
I was in a very good scholarship group, so I was fortunate in that aspect.
I had some people I got along with.
But, you know, it also had the classic New York syndrome, the world end at the Hudson River.
Maybe to stand high enough, you can see the John Hancock, Karen Chicago and Golden Gate Bridge.
And of course, everybody knows there's nothing in between.
Very provincial.
So that's, you know, there's a lot of good stuff around there, a lot of very exciting stuff.
But as far as my day-to-day environment, pretty discouraging at all.
I have a friend who went, she was, she's my age.
She's a Columbia religion undergraduate.
And then she messed around her husband with the grad school and all.
He's a psych prof.
And she's now in her third year at the University of Texas Law School.
And it's been real interesting to see her, to see how she has changed because of law school.
And she knows it.
And just getting in that mindset.
And I think her assessment of some of the people that was pretty dull, I think that's pretty true, by and large.
Yeah, it is.
And I'll tell you, the change in thinking, here's so much about thinking like a lawyer.
It's not that much of a change.
It becomes a little bit of a change because it's surrounded by the secret language.
You know, you're picking up a couple of Captain Midnight words, nobody else, you know, the guy on the street doesn't know.
You're learning things between you think about it, aren't terribly complicated, but by the same second they're a little artificial.
So that, again, is unique because the average show doesn't know it.
So you know something he doesn't.
And as far as the techniques of thinking go, gee, the only real trick is just to think very carefully, logically and analytically.
And if you do that, you know, and start with first things first, I mean, that's the great secret.
As far as the business of the Socratic Method in class, you know, thinking like a lawyer, I really think it's considerably overblown.
But don't tell her I may be wrong or if I'm right, that's what the maker said.
I was glad you mentioned to talking about Kenyon.
I had a friend that went to Kenyon.
His name was Aaron Burke.
I think he would have graduated quite a bit.
You knew Aaron Burke?
Yeah.
Wait a minute, and he would have been a year older than me?
Yeah, at least, uh-huh.
Aaron the Baron?
I didn't know him as Aaron the Baron.
Dark hair always looks like they'll really burn down.
Yeah, that's Aaron.
Yeah, he was in my clinic.
Oh, wow.
He was a, let's see, when I was a senior in college, I was working in, I'm a chemist,
and I was working in a lab for a professor in Aaron Post-Oct.
This was at Rice.
Yeah, right.
He was in chemistry with a brilliant guy.
Oh, very bright.
Oh, I miss him.
I learned a lot from him as far as chemistry and what I do, and then he was just a pretty nice guy.
I saw him last in 1972.
Oh, amazing.
I'm glad I mentioned it then, because he always talked about Kenyon, and that's, it's a small world.
Yeah, I should say.
The Baron was, he was really quite a figure there.
As far as I remember, he had three pair of jeans, two T-shirts, one change of linen, and a suit.
He got his good will.
I never saw him in his suit.
Well, maybe he hadn't got a good will yet.
It's really a, that's what I meant to say, I'm sure he's straightened out by the time he got out back in the real world,
but that's along the lines of what I was talking about, the exit trophy of the place.
Really, first-rate lines, not terribly stable though.
Yeah, we had some, we used to play a lot of racquetball in the summers,
and had some pretty amazing times at night, and got the munchies a lot at late hours, and that was a good time.
I miss Aaron.
That's, I'm glad I mentioned him.
Okay, I'll let you go.
I appreciate it.
I was going to ask you to, if I could beg your indulgence, could I possibly send my four books and have them autographed?
Oh, God.
And I will put in the return postage and the label and all that, and I would be,
Oh, well thank you.
I do appreciate that.
It's been really nice.
I've gotten a kick out of this.
It's nice to be able to talk to the people who might marvel at what they write, and I reread the stuff.
I don't know how many times I've reread it now, but I wanted to reread it this week, and it's been great.
And from a fan, please hurry up and write another one.
That's exactly the encouragement I need.
I think you might like the new one.
Can I tell you what it's about?
Yeah, I'll go right ahead.
Okay, well, the idea is based upon what happens if for some one reason or another, the very finest portion of humanity simply leaves the planet.
For one reason, I don't know exactly why they get fed up with things, but the very best of the doctors, scientists, God, I guess even the best lawyers can find them.
For over a period of a few years, they just begin leaving and they're gone.
And then afterwards, people realize that A, they are gone.
B, that by leaving, it's the best of left, and what does that mean?
It's very fine folks.
And things after that for either because they left or because people think this is the result of their leaving, it just gets progressively worse and worse and worse.
And after a period of about 40 or 50 years, however, they gradually stabilize after a lot of the usual chaos in this book.
And that's why the heroes, the Attorney General of what's left of the United States, they only go to Chicago.
I'm also having enough guts to actually put the story in real world parts.
And a lot of the action resolves, not the gift of leaving, but the things finally beginning to calm down when it suddenly turns out that they're coming back.
Okay.
Are you think you'll submit it to Dawn?
Well, I was real fortunate.
One of those little stories that when I was a Kenyan, again, I was not in the English section because an English major, because I really thought they were much too intelligent, good for me.
They had a novel, an apographer novel named Tom Fleming to speak to the Honors English section.
I weeled in my way into a reception.
I couldn't get into seminary and running at the time.
But I, Madam, talked to him briefly and we had often discussed some of the problems.
My first one had already come out by that time.
He recommended his agent in New York, Malcolm Rees, at Paul Reynolds Agency, who I then saw and as it turned out, Rees, first of all, was just one of the people who I was talking to.
I was a really first-rate guy, a real gentleman, I've met in my life.
And he liked science fiction because he'd edited the Paul from the 30s and unknown to me is son had graduated from Kenyan a year or two ahead of me.
So we had it off pretty well and he tried to pedal.
I believe the day start didn't get anywhere and very graciously turned it back to me to just sell to Wolheim and not take a commission.
And then he managed to sell Siege of Wunder to Double Day.
The gentleman died after that but his son is now carrying on.
And so I've got a name back there.
Hopefully they'll remember me and if I get something I'll send it out to them and I'll circulate it around and see what happens.
Great. We'll be watching for it.
Thanks for keeping a lookout on the ones you have so far.
Okay, thanks. It's been great. I'll send you the books within a couple of weeks and I do appreciate that.
Okay, great. Have a good trip to Reno and we'll talk to you later, Mark. Good night now.